1. Download dataset “Cellphone Subscriptions - World Bank” from
http://csci-4830-002-2014.github.io/units/tableau_1/
2. Open Tableau public app
	Open the above XLS
3. Goto worksheet
	Observe Country code, country name, Income group, Long name, Region are displayed under Dimensions
	Observe Cellphones, Lattitude, Longitude, Number of records are displayed under Measures
4. Select country name from Dimensions
	Select Symbol maps under 'Show me'
	Observe Lattitude, Longitude are automatically selected
	Now map will appear
5. Select Cellphones under Measures. Drag & drop on Colour under Marks
	Now different contries are displayed different colors
	Click on Colors->Edit colors->Select Green color
	Observe countries are displayed with Green shaded
6. Select Marks-> Drop down menu
	Different Marks types are displayed
	Select circle
	Select Colors->Edit colors->Select Red-Blue diverging color
7. Hide Show me menu
	Select Region. From drop down select Show filter
	Observe different regions are selected in right side pane
	Uncheck all regions except East Asia & Pacific
	Try to Modify filter type from drop down list from multi values list to different one
8. Create a new view (new worksheet) by clicking 'New worksheet' (+) symbol at the bottom
	Select Year and drop in columns
	Select Cellphones and drop in rows
	Observe a line chart appears
	This can be changed by selecting different marks type such as 'Bar' or 'Area' etc
	Undo and stay with line chart
	Hover over line and observe how data is aggregated for each year data point
9. For more detailed data view
	Select Income group and drop on Color (under Marks)
	Observe different colored lines are appearing for each income group
	To observe data region wise, simply drag Region and drop over Income group (under Marks)
	Observe different colored lines are appearing for each region
	Thickness of the lines can be adjusted by changing the 'Size' slider (under Marks)
10. Line chart shows aggregated data for each country
	By default 'Sum' is the aggregate function
	Change this clicking drop down list of SUM(Cellphones) under Rows
	Select Measure(Sum) and then change to Avergae or Count or Median etc
	Undo and stay with Average
	Drag Country name onto Detail (under Marks) to view countrywise average
11. To display regionwise line charts:
	Drag Region to Rows section
	observe line charts are displayed regionwise
12. Observe Years are displayed from 1965 to 2011
	Add a Year filter
	Drag Year from Dimensions and drop onto 'Filter' shelf
	Filter Field window opens
	Select Range of dates
	Select start year to 1990, Apply, OK
	Observe now data showing from 1990
13. Rename Sheets 1 and 2 to Map and Region
	Create a Dashboard to combine these two sheets
	Click on 'New Dashboard' at the bottom
	Now from left pane double click 'Map' worksheet to add into Dashboard
	Observe Map is appearing under Dashboard
	Drag Region and drop under Map
14. Add a text in the Dashboard
	Drag Text from left pane and drop on top of Map sheet
	Type Worldwide Cellphone Subscription
	Format by changing Fon type, size, bold, center align and click OK
	Resize the Text box
	Make Region filter as floating window by clicking dropdown->floating
	Resize Region filter
15. Hide worksheet titles by right clicking the worksheet and click on 'Hide'
	Right click Region filter and select 'Apply to Worksheets' -> All using this data source
16. Save this Dashboard to the web
	File->Save to Tableau Public as 
	Enter Email id and Password
	Enter workbook name as 'Worldwide Cellphone Subscription' and click Save button
	Observe browser is getting opened and Dashboard is getting displayed
17. The visualization can be shared from browser to social media or other website
	Click on share button. Observe Facebook and Tweeter
